welcome everybody - and hopefully
amazing episode of after impact I'm here
hosting I'd like to actually that was
some conviction right there
respect I take it all back welcome to an
amazing episode of after impact I'm your
host Tom bill you and I am here with
none other than agents Matt mr. bill you
was up dude you know just feel a little
bit better now
feeling better yeah you had a rough day
yesterday yep that's what happens when
you play food truck roulette yeah yeah
that's a dicey game my friend it's dicey
game but I'm back in it all right
well we're good here have you back
talked about Noah Galloway yes thanks
everyone for joining us on Facebook live
and on the podcast or YouTube wherever
you're consuming this content let's just
dive right in
actually before we do let's do that so
one if this is adding value please do
share that would be amazing as that's
how we grow the community and dearest
community we are at ninety five thousand
likes which is amazing being as how we
just launched in January so we are
obscenely grateful for that and as a
thank you and show our gratitude I'm
going to be doing a 24-hour live next
Wednesday August 23rd starting at 9:00
a.m. and going until 9:00 a.m. on the
24th be sure to send in questions that
you want answered we're gonna have a
whole bunch of guests that are going to
be joining me we're going to be doing I
hope some cool giveaways and stuff like
that so going to have a lot a lot a lot
of cool stuff going on we've programmed
like literally programmed we're going to
be doing this and this and this and this
person's going to be here this time in
some time a lot of the hours I don't
know that all 24 I think most not most
but like the later night hours a lot of
them are going to be me doing QA with
the people that happen to be up at that
time the crowd given a clue yes so do
join us for that it is going to be
really special we're pulling out all the
stops doing a lot of cool stuff so we
will see you there next Wednesday for 24
hours alive here on this set 9 a.m. to 9
a.m. Pacific Standard that's the one no
sleep join me
I'm going to be crazy awesome it is
going to be awesome thank you for that
reminder absolutely
okay so Noah Galloway if you don't know
he has an incredible story this episode
was very moving and a lot of people kind
of commented on that on YouTube but he
is a Afghanistan war veteran he's a
speaker off there he was in Iraq eliwood
for both tours I'm almost certain okay
Iraq war veteran speaker author and a
veterans advocate he has incredible
story he enlisted in the army after 9/11
and on his second tour was when he was
hit by the I got three months into a
second tour yep he loses his left leg
and his left arm
but then he really starts to get in
troubles he sinks into a deep depression
at one point he ends up in the county
jail with a DUI for ten days and starts
to claw his way out of this depression
he started he ends up overcoming his
depression then he begins making
appearances on major network television
shows like Ellen he competes on Dancing
with the Stars he starts to do a lot of
speaking and engaging with audiences and
as now has his book out and he's just
doing amazingly well so it's just a
really cool story to see that total
transformation and I want to talk about
the transformation and how he kind of
brought himself out of his depression
and I know one of the big things was
fitness for him so he started out really
big into fitness and then he loses his
arm his leg and isn't doing any sort of
fitness and he realizes that that's the
times when he but he's been happiest in
his life so he starts to go to the gym
so I want to talk to you about the
importance of fitness on mental health
Wow okay so they're the start with the
book spark by John Ratey who is actually
on inside quest I think you can find
that on Tom W classics the wonderful
youtube channel run by one of our
community members Joshua Martell what is
up homie so yeah check that out it's
very interesting that book talks a lot
about the cognitive benefits of exercise
the more I read about the microbiome and
the gut brain connection the more I am
radically move
freaked out by a little bit the two-way
communication that exists between the
body and the mind I mean it's it is
really extraordinary
so exercising getting in there working
out pushing yourself not only has some
pretty profound mindset implications but
just from a rough physiological
perspective the degree of communication
between your body and your mind is
extraordinary and one of the things I
think that most of the community knows
about so I've gotten involved with this
company called mo Deus health and one of
the things that they're looking at is
what can you do to some of your major
nerves like the one that they're focused
on is the vestibular nerve what can you
do with stimulation there to impact in
their case the FDA recognizes the device
is a wellness device for weight loss but
if you understand the mechanisms that
are at play from there there are a few
things for which virtually universally
if you suffer from weight loss diabetes
and anxiety and depression that
universally people will say exercise
right so what is it about exercise that
has this real impact on I want to say
the brain but more in reading about the
gut it could be both that what is it
about the the movement the activity the
discipline stress I need a better word
for that but like where you're
intentionally putting yourself there so
it's it's you're not having the same
sort of response you would get inside a
flight where there's like you get real
stress or chemicals pumped but you're
putting yourself through that it's very
rigorous it does put a stress on the
body but you trigger this like adaptive
response now what is it about that that
also dramatically influences mental
health I don't think it's clear yet
right now like I would just say look at
all the research and understand there
are so many studies that are saying whoa
we don't exactly know why yet but these
two are inextricably linked yeah so it's
one of those that when people are
struggling
it's literally like the first thing I
say if you have anxiety or depression
you need to
into the gym immediately and you need to
begin working out I don't know what the
mechanism is yet but I will just tell
you that it has a massive impact so it
is not at all surprising to me that
that's what Noah turned to and that he
had this vague sense of whenever I've
worked out I felt my best right
physically and mentally so I know that I
in and I think in fact he says when I
eat right and workout and that now let's
really get crazy and this I'm actually
understanding probably a little bit
better than just pure exercise and why
it has an impact but so I was reading
about this that this morning I love it
when books like really get me when like
I can hardly stop myself and and turn it
off and I was reading about it's a book
called the gut brain connection and it's
talking about one this will freak you
out
it certainly freaked me out the largest
sensing organ in your body I assume for
sure it was the skin the skin doesn't
even come close if you flatten out like
you can sort of imagine flattening out
your skin right it's big but it's not
crazy if you flatten out the interior
lining of your intestinal tract it's the
size of a basketball court so it's not
like a little bigger it is a lot bigger
and you have all of these like sensing
cells in addition to the bacteria so
you've got all these cells that like
basically are watching what's coming in
overfit
I think is I know it's over 50% it may
be over 70% but we'll just say 54 now to
really be true over 50% of your immune
cells or in your gut so there's more
immune cells in your gut than there are
in your bone marrow and the rest of your
body which is crazy to me so you've got
this like really highly attuned organ
for figuring out what's going on right
and there is a massive connector and
they didn't mention what it was in the
book but I'm going to guess they're
referring to the vagus nerve there's a
massive connector one of the physically
thickest nerves that run from the gut to
the brain so it allows for two-way
communication so when you get nervous
anxious where do you feel it in your
chest or your stomach Yeah right like
how weird is that so like people talk
about getting butterflies in your
stomach that is why it's so bizarre and
it's one of those things that because
nobody really had like a clear answer
for we just sort of accept it but don't
really think about the implications of
that so it is yes
very fascinating that and then on top of
that you have bacteria that are also
listening and see a bacteria that live
in this really thin mucosal layer of the
intestines which literally put them just
from a proximity standpoint right next
to those sensing and communicating cells
in your gut so they're listening to the
brain they're communicating back to the
brain and then the bacteria get in on
that so they're listening what are our
stress levels are we is are we inside or
flight' like what's going on and so you
get that bacterial participation in the
communication chain and the book talks
about how that can actually prolong your
a mood right so if you're feeling
nervous anxious depressed whatever the
bacteria can actually prolong that which
is why your microbiome is being
implicated in depression anxiety and
things like that that either it's an
echo or it could actually by a process
called dysbiosis where you get out of
what we call optimum balance I hate that
word but like you things are out of
whack
whatever that means and so it can be
feeding into that and sending
communications directly to the brain dis
regulating your serotonin production so
when he says that it's like that science
is really now coming to the forefront
and so it makes so much sense to me that
his first step because he said it all
triggered from he realized my kids are
going to learn what a man is by watching
me and I've got to get back to myself
but I've got to get out of this
depression I've got to get back to who I
was I've got to set a good example and I
think it is incredible that he turned to
diet and exercise a because I think it's
so effective and then be because it must
have been so hard for him like he had
every excuse in the world and I love
what he said about depression because he
was like you know I was telling a friend
I'm feeling depressed and their initial
response was well you have a reason to
be depressed like all these other people
like what
of Aegon's Rooney said whoa whoa it is
it is a chemical imbalance and so I love
that this guy who could be like the king
of yeah like what are these guys
complaining about they don't know he's
the one and I know now I'm treading on
one of the points he want to bring up
but he's so empathetic yeah like what is
it about this guy yeah it's really
unbelievable why don't you take us into
the empathy waters before I continue on
about the microbiome sure let's go there
one of the things that struck me as I
was listening to the episode or you know
hearing it for the second time was you
know you talk about service a lot and
that is a running theme in his life and
it struck me when we when he was going
through the hammer story and it's kind
of what is the takeaway there from the
hammer story and he could have just
dropped it why don't you remind us what
the hammer story is so he's helping out
doing disaster relief it was a tornado I
think yeah it's Matthew nailed and I
think it was multiple tornadoes yeah
causes massive damage he goes out just
like community based organization they
go out to try to help people put tarps
over their houses save from the rain so
he's out there and he's up on the roof
hammering and this was with one arm and
one leg and he drops a hammer into the
rubble below and the guy whose house it
was he looks at the guy and he says I'm
going to need another hammer and the guy
says that was my dad's hammer and passed
away passed away and he can see the
emotion on his face and so he feels
really bad he says I'll go find it and
the guy's like no don't worry about it
anyway he ends up going down after they
finished the tarp and he looks and looks
and looks and guys like really it's not
a big deal you can kind of feel that
it's a big deal for this guy so he keeps
looking and he ends up finding the
hammer I mean he gives it to him the guy
is really emotional so thankful so he
knows it was important but I was like
why did he persist when most people have
just said yes lost forever we're in the
middle of a storm it's raining outside
it's in the rubble I have one leg in one
arm I can't really go around in the
throw bowl it's dangerous for me and he
just kept going going going and I think
it's like he has a real deep sense of
empathy for people and you could see
that in the cookies story which is where
he stands up for the guy in prison on
Fester and you can see it with all of
his motivations about you know enlisting
and the way he acted
he was in the military and just he lives
a life of service like you'd say and I
think it comes from his deep empathy so
I wanted to ask you about what what do
you think empathy has in terms like how
important is it for your life and how
important is it in just kind of personal
development and self-awareness emotional
intelligence
what role does it play I'll quickly
answer that and then I want to get to
even broadening out from there as to why
we have empathy and why I think that
maybe it's one of the most important
things we have that's allowed us to
become the apex predator oh the irony
there so to answer your question the
role that I think that it plays in self
development the most important role is
maybe the least understood and that is
self compassion in personal development
so in personal development I think one
of the the most important things that
you could do is meet yourself with
compassion it is certainly the most
necessary thing when you meet other
people who are struggling is to meet
them with compassion rather than
ideology which I think people expect
from me like when they ask me I've got
somebody in my life they're really
struggling and I've had all these
breakthroughs and they continue to
struggle and like what do I do and the
answer is don't proselytize meet them
with compassion and empathy and
understanding of where they are rather
than you're like need to change them
because you love them and I get it it
comes from a great place but at the end
of the day like you just need to sit
down next to them and love them right
like that's the that's the answer and I
think people need to do that for
themselves first and you need to have
compassion for all your foils and you
need to be understanding of yourself
when you fall on your face and why I'm
saying this in terms of self development
and improvement is because if you're
wasting cycles like feeling badly about
yourself and feeling badly about where
you are it it you can't create that
forward momentum you're always beating
yourself up you're always not good
enough and then that it either stops you
from ever having belief in the first
place or corrodes your belief so humans
lead with belief that's the first step
if you don't believe you can do it
you're not going to take the first step
and it doesn't mean that you can that
you already are something you
just need to believe that you can learn
and develop those things so if you can't
meet yourself with compassion that's
sort of that step that's going to allow
you to build that belief from the
confidence you're going to need to move
forward okay so that's why it's
important in self-development
okay why is it important in or where do
I want to take it from here so reading
vs Ramachandran s work one of the things
he's most famous for is really
understanding the mirror neuron system
now what are mirror neurons me rate so
this freaked me you ever read something
in a book and you go it's just not going
to pan out in real life yes so I read in
the book and it said if you stick your
tongue out at an infant even like in the
first few weeks of their life they'll
stick their tongue back out at you
because mirror neurons mirror neurons
they see what you're doing they're
mirror neuron fires we have this innate
ability to mimic back and I've talked a
lot about in terms of understanding some
of the motions you'll find yourself
mimicking their posture mimicking their
facial expressions so you can actually
feel which has a whole slew of
implications which are incredibly
important to self emotional management
but so I thought I read this I thought
wow that's so cool too bad it won't
actually work in real life and then for
some reason I came in contact with an
infant and I slept and that [__]
looks right at me and go I was like I've
never worked I was like freaking out and
that was when I realized like this might
actually be real so mirror neurons as a
system are probably one of the most
foundational things to us building a
society because you can really connect
to something you can really understand
them you can really empathize and that
allows you to cooperate in very large
groups because there's just a degree of
understanding also it allows you to
learn skills so you can this is
fascinating you can put somebody in an
fMRI machine and have them swinging
aback let's say then you can put them in
an fMRI machine and have them watch
somebody swing a bat and then it's like
there's two regions of the brain that
light up when you do it and then when
you watch it one of those two regions
fully lights up still so you're there is
like you're getting a massive amount of
benefit you can actually see changes in
physiology from asking
somebody to think about lifting weights
those careers let that sink in for a
second just by asking somebody to think
about something in a discipline manner
it's not just like one-off like you've
got to think about it for Adam remember
what the study was it was like 20
minutes a day every day and it was they
actually increased a certain percentage
of strength that was more than the
double-blind placebo is crazytown so a
huge part of what we become capable of
is from watching other people so yeah
that is amazing and that's why I think
empathy just has like empathy is an echo
of the mirror neuron system and when
somebody has a very developed mirror
neuron system I think you'll find that
they'll have an easier time becoming
extraordinary at something else like
whatever they end up you know really
putting their time and energy and
discipline into getting great at they're
going to get big rewards because they'll
be able to sponge so much just from
watching it yeah pretty incredible
that's awesome really fascinating stuff
and I want to go back to what you said
earlier about depression and the way
that Noah Galloway thinks about it and
talks about it and I also it really
stopped me in my tracks when he said you
know it doesn't need to be anything
traumatic in your life you could just
have depression and that's okay and we
need to acknowledge that and I thought
that was really refreshing the way he
talked about it a and then the second
part that was refreshing is that he
talks about it not as you know I'm cured
from depression but like depression is
something that I have and that I will
always manage and deal with and I think
that that's and like that's something
that needs to be talked about around
mental health too it's not like we tend
to sort of ostracize people and say they
have this thing and oh and then they're
cured congratulations to them but right
it's like it's an ongoing battle and
that's okay that you're constantly
struggling with it so I wanted to get
your thoughts on kind of the the way
that he's thinking about mental health I
know you've talked about anxiety a
little bit and having struggled with
that well what's really interesting when
he mentioned it he mentioned it in
association with it was winter and this
winter I really fell prey to it so
there's a thing called seasonal effect a
ssin disorder where it's almost
certainly tied to vitamin D we
is vitamin D isn't really a vitamin I
think it's a hormone precursor if I
remember right so your body can't just
produce it it needs to get it so from
the Sun or you can supplement or I'm
sure there are certain foods that you
can eat that may trigger the synthesis
of vitamin D but without it depression
really can be a problem and so it was
really fascinating to see him sort of
beginning to recognize what the patterns
are and the Sun is one of those really
fascinating things where ie I make sure
that I get a decent mana sun exposure I
lay out in the Sun I don't wear sunblock
almost ever even when we were in Bora
Bora for a second I could remember we
went in Bora Bora even then like I tried
so my wife wanted to do this
paddleboarding stuff and I was like I'm
going to need five or six days to lay
down a base pan of laying out you know
15 20 minutes at a shot to get a tan
before we do the X I don't want to put
sunscreen on but I'm going to put
sunscreen on do you ever read something
and you go it's too early to call from a
scientific perspective but I kind of
like there's something to it that
unnerves me and so I'm just going to
take a cautious approach so there are
studies I don't know enough about this
man like do your own research draw your
own conclusions but there are some scary
studies out there that say that the more
if you in fact I think this is the exact
study you're more likely to get skin
cancer if you reapply sunscreen then if
you get a burn without sunscreen or you
only apply it once now I don't know what
that means
but maybe it means that there's
something in the sunscreen that at a
certain level becomes more problematic
than the damage from the Sun now here's
the truth the Sun does damage in no
uncertain terms so what like anything
that dose makes the poison so I think
you can lay off this on too much I think
you can get a weathered look I think
that it can lead to some skin cancer but
I also think that again reading the
study is too early for me to call
there's a lot of people out there
talking that the the cancers that form
if you have a
lack of vitamin D are more terrifying
than the cancer that you get from the
Sun so I don't know man I am NOT giving
advice on this right now I don't feel
that I understand it well enough but I
will tell you what I do so I get if it
is a sunny weekend day I'm laying out in
the Sun and I'm going to lay out in the
Sun for 15 to 20 minutes I'm going to
stop shy of burning but I'm not going to
apply sunscreen so that's the path I've
chosen I get my vitamin D levels checked
my vitamin D levels I would say are sort
of middle of the road they could be
better
eighty I think it's what nanograms I
don't remember what the measure for
vitamin D is you get a check so that you
can kind of monitor correct so if you're
I'll say that I monitor my levels to
find out where they are
I get vitamin D in general because I
know that if seasonal affect a shinto
sorter is real that a lack of vitamin D
can lead to depression got it okay but
also anti-cancer properties because
that's the bet I'm placing yeah so wow
we could really go deep but now I don't
understand it well enough to really like
keep talking about it so I'm gonna stop
now but that's my route then send me
some of that literature but yeah
definitely a lot of time in the Sun so I
need to I need to research do you
sunscreen up yeah yeah so check out I'll
just a guy who has an interesting
perspective I'm certainly not putting my
stamp of approval on him but I got an
interesting perspective the dude named
dr. Mercola so dr. Mercola everybody and
if I'm not mistaken it's Dr Mercola calm
I think yeah check it out anyway
google him all that much so I'm going to
do a couple shout outs and welcome
everyone I know we're about halfway
through here so thank you for joining us
on Facebook live this is after impact
this is the show where Tom and I go deep
into the episode of impact theory and
today we're discussing Noah Galloway in
his episode which is titled to see how
to defeat depression and end excuses
couple shoutouts here from Salt Lake
City we got Bernal Washburn Bernal
Washburn Bernal washburn Bernal Washburn
I know
real name burn are you real I knew a
Brian O'Brien ones really yeah I don't
know whether that's really cool or mean
I grew up with a Justin case seriously
yes just in case just in case I want to
meet those parents they have a sense of
humor yes and guarantees we also have a
couple more shout outs from Mohammed
Kyoshi from Giza Egypt whoa yeah house
what is up and Jael Craigie from the
Windy City Chicago here's a question
from Ali Kasim he says hey Tom great
point about meeting yourself with
compassion first you think that's one of
gary vaynerchuk's biggest strengths yes
doesn't judge himself to himself up
despite his incredibly high standards I
remember you picking up on this in the
IT episode do you think that's one of
the main reasons why he's so acidic
definied I don't know that that's why
he's empathetic but I think that one of
his superpowers is that he doesn't judge
himself which I that really hit me in
the middle of the episode I was just
like this guy will admit the craziest
[__] about the time that you admit that
you you emotionally can't lose to like
your four-year-old child like that you
just you just can't live in that world I
was like wow like this guy does not
judge himself at all and I think it's
amazing I think that is exactly how
people need to be now I want to say this
in the context of I 20% of the time I
kick myself in the ass and I stop being
compassionate and I start you know but
that's my life I don't know that
everybody needs or wants that I have a
cool idea for an infographic I want to
talk to you about this afterwards I was
like oh my god is a vehicle which has
something to do with that but not
everybody needs to like I'm the wrong
guy for a lot of people to take advice
from I know that I'm okay with that I'm
a filtering mechanism I'm trying to
build a community of people who think
like I think and are motivated the way
that I'm motivated and can really like
understand how powerful like there's
Jerrod there's nothing you could say to
me that will convince me that spending
25 percent of my time in the darkness is
a bad idea because the rewards that it
has given me are massive right and that
I love my life
I am NOT perfectly fulfilled by any
stretch of the imagination but I
my life so yeah it's effective for you
you said that all I'm doing was
effective correct so so yep
so yes is the very short answer all
right I want to talk about motivation
it's garbage that's all hey nice a good
callback to Mel Robbins sir yes so one
of the things that motivate or the thing
that motivates no Galloway is his family
his children he talks a lot about that
in the episode and more broadly I think
it's service for other people which we
just discussed and one of the things
that helped him get out of his
depression and get back into the gym was
I think it was his cousin we asked Tori
yeah who was struggling with weight and
that's what got him excited really you
know get disciplined around it so it's
interesting that those are the things
that really get him going and we talked
about motivation a lot on impact theory
so do you think that there is one type
of motivator that is stronger than
others and also do you think that's
service like doing things for other
people things for other people is one of
the strongest motivators Wow I think
that's going to be unique to the
individual I don't think it's universal
okay so I will in fact I know it's not
Universal doing the cool captivate thing
that we did did I have so much fun if
you're an entrepreneur if you have
employees I'm telling you right now read
the book captivate and actually sit down
with your employees take her quizzes and
then discuss it was unbelievable it is
so fascinating because with your
internal life it all feels so
objectively real that you just can't
imagine other people are legitimately
motivated by different things yeah and
so to go around the group and see how
many like one to see how we have clearly
attracted a certain type of person so
there was like a scary amount of things
where we were like virtually everybody
was like yeah that's me and then the
diversity of on other things was like
whoa like you're you value this and I
value that
man it was so so interesting so anyway
that's a tangent I don't think it's the
same I will tell you what I'm motivated
by I was just thinking about this in the
shower if there's like a big earthquake
while we're at the house stay the [__]
away from the chandelier right like
nobody trusts that that thing isn't
coming down yeah and then I thought what
would I do if wookie were under that
table and she refused to come out
because when dogs get scared they won't
move and I thought I would literally
have to go under the the one thing that
I would tell everybody to get away from
and so I'm running the scenario in my
head and I thought you know like if I
went to grab her and pull her out and it
falls and like I lose an arm like how
would I think about that after the fact
would I say it was a mistake or would I
say you damn right like small price to
pay I feel now more strongly than ever
that it was the right thing and I
thought I am so I feel such a sense of
wanting to protect those that I care
about that without question the thing I
rehearse the most in my life is
defending my wife right like in an
altercation that just does not the odds
are stacked against me and I just have
to blaze into it you know what do you do
when you're surrounded by 200 enemy
soldiers you kill them all
I think about that all the time all the
time all the time and that is way more
motivating for me than protecting myself
now here's something that's interesting
I never get spooked if my wife's home
ever but I do if I'm by myself like if
an earthquake hit and I were by myself
I'd be like oh [__] if an earthquake hit
and my wife is here like all I can think
about is I've got to find her I've got
to get her into the triangle of life
look it up I've got to get her into a
triangle of life like my every instinct
is just like all about her and making
sure that she's safe
that is so interesting to me yeah very
interesting so anyway it's a huge
motivator for me I don't expect it to be
the same for everybody
identifying what your thing is because I
think there's a lot of juice and going
that's my thing and so now I'm going to
line things up like one of the ways when
I'm really fatigued I'm really tired
and hawk-like dua oh god like continuing
to push and push and push I think about
the promises that I've made to my wife
and what I want to give her I think
about the kid out there right now who
will believe that his life is just meant
to be less than it could be because
that's the belief system he's been given
like that gets me going thinking about
like a fancy car and more money like
that doesn't motivate me yeah so
actually that's a lot that motivates me
not nearly enough the other stuff is way
more potent to me that's awesome in the
wookie scenario where she's under the
chandelier yeah I want to ask is the
motivator they're protecting wookie or
is it protecting Lisa oh wow it's
actually protecting wookie but you put
like so I really do think of her as my
child so I would be doing it for that I
could not be okay with myself and I
remember thinking this when when she
went missing and I was with the k-9 unit
and we were going down literally she
said okay this because there was two
dogs one that looks for signs of life
and the other looks for signs of death
and the second dog after we exhausted
the signs of life dog the signs of death
dog was like the handler said what this
dog does is actually find a coyote trail
and follow it back because that's like
the surest way to find the the point of
death and I remember thinking we're
crawling up a coyote trail like if we do
this right this ends at coyotes so and I
remember thinking at the time I will
[__] them up I will ruin a coyote if it
comes out right now because if that's
what I have to do to like get to my
daughter then so be it so I had no fear
and I just kept going forward
relentlessly relentlessly relentlessly
like wanting like come [__] with me
right now and when it's that when it's
like helping somebody else and and
having that sense of like this is my
child not to do whatever the [__] it
takes to protect them like to look at
myself I would have to do that which is
why like look I don't want to put myself
in harm's way but if that's what I have
to do to live by that code and protect
those that I care about then so be it
nice
but yeah I should be thinking of my wife
because the emotional devastation that
she would go through would be gnarly
yeah here's a question from Ahmed Hassan
he says Tom do you think that you could
fight depression spiritually and does it
matter in that case and in that case
we're assuming means curing it doesn't
matter which way you care to prep
we'll just leave what's out there yeah
so we'd have to define the word
spiritual so I'm going to say
mindfulness I think plays a huge part in
that it's probably not what he means by
spiritual but that that is a very
entangled word so at the end of the day
this is a brain chemistry gut chemistry
problem it's a chemistry bra let's just
stick with that it's a chemistry problem
so if the spiritual practices are
helping you change your chemistry
helping you change your wiring in the
brain absolutely if they don't then it
won't help so this isn't something that
I believe serving this outside of the
body I don't think it's going to help
you but if whatever that meditative
practice is or whatever that looks like
if it is helping you then maybe and now
let's get really specific if let's take
a church definition of spirituality if
going to church and connecting with
other people and being around people
that are like-minded and uplifting like
that could have a huge impact just
connecting with people or social animal
so I think there could be huge positive
implications to getting out of the house
like one of the things that I would do
if I didn't have Lisa and I found myself
in a depressive state I'm trying to get
around other people even though I'm
introverted but I think that being
around people they would have to be
positive I would have to be a super
psycho about that like they would have
to be upbeat positive people that are in
a good place in their life so we're not
wallowing that I'm meeting their mood
I'm mirroring what they're going through
I'm matching their facial expressions
their postures their attitudes right so
you are the average of the five people
you spend the most time with make sure
those five people are very positive yeah
so yeah I would make sure that I did
so nice to sides of the coin there like
it one of the things that Noah says in
the episode is he I think the phrasing
was he was good he was a good soldier
because he was not afraid of death yeah
I'm an honest Taurus and I wanted to ask
what do you think the equivalent of that
is in business and in life that is very
easy in business that's very easy so the
equivalent in business is total
catastrophic collapse of your business
and personal finances and shameful
shameful embarrassment so think like
imagine you've raised venture capital
money millions of dollars you sold them
on you on your idea and you go in with
so much confidence that they really buy
into you and now you go and you're doing
everything and it fails and now you just
lost a lot of money for a lot of people
and let's say you did it in an
embarrassing fashion and you just did
something stupid and it all collapses
your reputation collapses everything
like that is the business equivalent and
then how do you rebuild it is only the
people who can face that and be like
yeah I get it I know that that's a very
real possibility but I'm going to march
forward anyway that end up being
successful like you really do I won't
say that you have to be fearless but you
have to be courageous so in spite of the
fear you've got to continue to act
you've got to continue to push forward
when and look I think about this when I
think about that once again I've asked
my wife to like put her house on the
line and like you know just hey let's
risk it all again and she doesn't go
into it saying like oh well you've
always won in the past and so you're
going to keep winning in the future it's
not that it's it is a true willingness
to say okay if it all goes to nothing am
I still going to be okay with that and
certainly for me the answer is yes I
mean I don't have to hesitate for my
wife I think the answer is yes I don't
even think she hesitates she certainly
doesn't outwardly so yeah you got to be
able to face that down now in life in
life I think you're back to actual death
I think that's where people
actually dying that if I do that jump
out of an airplane or whatever yeah it
comes down to here and not everybody's
thinking about death but death really is
the worst case scenario by the way so I
like people to really think through that
embarrassment I think is a real hard one
for people being judged by those who
they love like I'll tell you one that
would be hard for me if I failed then my
mom who worries about me all the time
it's like I just realized at a certain
point my mom can sit in my Beverly Hills
mansion and worry about my finances and
I'm just like how do you do that how's
that like even possible so I get it's
like I know how logical yeah very very
high neurotic it's pathological so if I
were to fail the one conversation I
would not be looking forward to it would
be my mom like I knew I had to worry you
know I mean like that would be less than
enjoyable what do you think about the
concept of memento mori
I don't know what that means it just
means that you're going to die and a lot
of philosophers I think a lot of Stoics
too does it translate to directly I
don't know the exact translation goes
it's two words right memento mori yeah
but it's funny somebody we encountered
recently has that tattooed on them and I
remember thinking ask them what and if
we just got busy Wow so their arms said
remember you're going to die yeah that's
fascinating so I know a lot of
philosophers and Stoics will talk about
this and some people talk about actually
meditating on your death as a way to I
guess gain perspective what do you think
about that well it's really interesting
to me because I live in the friction
between I plan to live forever and I'm
acting accordingly and that right now
the changes haven't been made that will
allow me to live forever and by the way
I could have an aneurysm and died before
I finish the sentence right so like
living in that I think is the only smart
way to live because if you're obsessed
about death and worried about it it's
those are just cycles that you could be
putting towards something else and I
think if you
we plan to live forever health becomes a
real real thing for you and thinking
about your long-term health also
optimizes you in the moment which i
think is important also it you'll never
be afraid to make big plans so I could
be 80 and thinking about ok what's going
to be that next big thing that I'm going
to do and never let your past be bigger
than your future like when you think you
actually have a shot at living forever
that that isn't crazy but at the same
time like the perspective of I've got
one shot and I need to make this count
like that is really really important and
so I do bounce back and forth between
the bravado of I'm going to live forever
and but you might not and so are you
really making this count like are you
really pushing hard enough did you milk
everything out of life so the funny
thing is I think people would predict
that I wouldn't respond well to somebody
having the tattoo memento mori on them
but it actually makes me want to get on
one forum memento mori and then on the
other whatever the Latin is for you're
going to live forever yeah because that
duality sits at my core nice like it
going back to our Facebook live audience
thanks again for joining us and if you
have questions for Tom about this
episode please submit them in the
comments below I haven't had too many
questions today so let's get active guys
get it yes yeah and if this content is
providing value please share with
community that helps us grow and
reminder the 24-hour live 24-hour live
8:23 9:00 a.m. get up on it - 9 a.m.
Pacific Standard Time tom is going to do
a marathon Facebook live we're calling
it the impact athon impact us on like
there it is we're going to have all
kinds of guests come on the show we're
going to have all kinds of giveaways
different types of content just things
you've never seen before it's going to
be fun it's going to be a lot of fun
yeah so join join us for that here's a
question from Ally kasam cuz I'm again
stay and stand nice and active do use
Tom do you think there's an evolutionary
bye
logical based reason why helping others
is such stronger motivation yes shall I
expand yes ah so yeah we're a social
creature and I think that the way that
we've been able to get to the point that
we are which I'll shorthand as the apex
predator is because of our ability to
get together in large groups our ability
to pass on culture our ability to help
each other that is just a really really
big deal so think about it just in terms
of caring for the elderly so as you get
older kind of sucks like your body
traditionally is dwindling but you have
access to the most knowledge wisdom and
when you care for your elders it's a way
to keep that knowledge going and
multiplying but if you don't care if
you're you know like one of the species
that is a lone player or they eat their
young or you know like whatever that
weird scenario ends up being that you
don't get that transference of knowledge
you don't get the massive accumulation
of knowledge and I think accumulation of
knowledge is really important so why so
as you get older assuming that you stay
cognitively sharp you're those ideas are
bouncing around and they're forming new
ideas and I think that when like take
our amazing amazing army of interns I
love our interns I don't say that enough
I don't say that enough to them hi I
love you guys what's fascinating to me
is I can see their future I can see them
twenty years from now and they can't so
knowing who they become like seeing the
raw horsepower that they have but they
just don't have the knowledge and the
wisdom they just haven't read the books
they haven't done the cycles so they're
they make rookie mistakes right where
it's like I can laugh about an internet
comment you won't make that mistake in
20 years like you'll just have fallen on
your face enough times it embarrassed
yourself enough times like you'll have
encountered really cool ideas enough
times and they'll uniquely begin to
coalesce in your unique mind in a unique
and special way that you will be a force
to be reckoned with but I haven't found
a way to short-circuit
Michael's right the the need to just
live a life and live it at full speed
trying to accumulate as much knowledge
as humanly possible in the way that they
bounce off each other it's really really
interesting so being an animal that is
social that cares for others which is
derived from that empathy and that
compassion you're able to prolong the
lives and this is just one way you're
able to prolong the lives of people who
are going to have all these unique ideas
all this unique experience making these
unique connections that they can then
pass to the next generation and that
compounds on itself and it's that
cultural compounding that is so
interesting and when you look at how
culture itself is like an exponential
curve and the way that that knowledge is
taxes taxes tax and just seeing what the
Internet has done to the accumulation of
knowledge is unbelievable and I'm so
grateful to that when I so when I'm
alone and I'm reading something that
empowers me meaning it has actual
utility in my life I just want to like
scream a thank you to somebody for all
of this because every book that's being
written is now being written with the
full knowledge that's accessible to them
over the internet so think about science
and the way that now they could have
interactions with a Japanese science
somebody in Australia people that just
before it would have been so physically
disparate that even if they were writing
a letter it could take a month or more
for that letter to traverse to get to
them and you can imagine like now you
could bounce those ideas off of each
other in real time over Skype it's nuts
so yeah it is amazing it's awesome I
want to talk about Sheepdogs unexpected
let's do it so this is harkening back to
the upload with fine mark Divya is he
Wednesday is he going to be part of that
do we know we confirm his name came up
at some point okay but May or me
I don't think he's scheduled for
Wednesday okay but that would be amazing
but at least you're going to be on his
podcast we know that do we yes is that
Wednesday well I think we're trying to
work it out but you will be on a podcast
it may happen during the Facebook live
we're not sure so that would be tuned in
it could be such a cool day he's awesome
so his thing is there are sheep
and there are wolves and there are
sheepdogs you consider themselves a
sheepdog which is a protector of really
just the general populace right against
the the threatening wolves the the evil
in the world
I see Noah Galloway as a similar figure
sheepdog and I know this concept
resonates with you because I can see
that kind of fire in your eye when
people like Noah and Marc come on the
show so I wanted to ask you what what is
it about that because I also and the
stories that you tell about how you
think about if a disaster happens here
like what how you would act or evereyone
an airplane and a terrorist takes over
how you would act so yeah what does that
resonate with you so strongly that's a
good question and I think five years ago
I would have thought well that's
universal everybody should be like that
and I think now that's probably not true
like I think people are motivated by
different things and to me I want that
responsibility
I want that role of leadership which
comes with tremendous responsibility
like you can't you can't ask people to
follow you if in times of trouble you're
not prepared to lead right so like the
the everyday is whatever it's when it
gets hard that people need to be able to
count on you so I find that really
really fascinating and that resonates
with me because for whatever reason like
when I see somebody like I don't want to
use cheesy words but like this is what's
actually happening in my head when I see
somebody suffering I really want to help
I I just want to help and I like seeing
people win like that to me is really
really fun and I've told the story
before but I always keep telling it I
remember in business and this is pretty
early on in my journey as an
entrepreneur so this really hurt me and
this guy that I really respected he was
very very successful and he looked at me
and he said you don't have the killer
instinct and I was like oh God like but
he was right because he was like when
you see somebody wounded or down like
you've got to go stamp them out and I
just thought god he's right man like you
have to you just got to go like kill him
and I was like God that really doesn't
make me feel
and this was like all at that time
before I had said there's a way to do
business that I'm going to do and I
don't give a [__] if it's if it works or
not it's actually going to make me enjoy
my life
yeah and I'm going to enjoy my life like
it's the game of brain chemistry and I
didn't realize that yet and so I thought
there was a mold that I had to fit in
and I really tried and I really tried to
have the killer instinct and finally one
day had dawned on me he's right I don't
have the killer instinct and I'm going
to use that to my advantage and I'm
going to be open and honest and real and
Quest is going to be about
transformation it's going to be about
celebrating people it's not going to be
about rewarding people for being a
badass and having six-pack abs is going
to be the catalyst of change because
that resonates with me and helping
somebody make that first step like that
resonates with me so for whatever reason
like I love that moment and because I
have finally allowed myself to respect
that in myself to prize that despite
what other people may come around me
what the world may try to tell me I
should be doing like it just never
resonated so and this is that whole
thing that you decide who you are and so
once I started Fanning those flames then
it like really became something because
it wasn't like oh like I'm I think of
myself as so compassionate and
empathetic it wasn't like that I just
felt like this little twinge right like
I wanted my sister to win the Easter Egg
Contest when my friends did well I
legitimately wanted to celebrate with
them and be stoked for them even if it
was something where we were doing the
same like so back in high school I was a
thrower so it's a very individual thing
so many times you're beat by your own
teammates and I remember thinking man if
if my feelings were entirely based on if
I did badly like worse than I had ever
done then I was bummed because I've
messed up and if I did my best and then
my friend beat me because they did their
best and their best was better I was
stoked I was stoked for myself and I was
stoked for them so that's just real
that's just where I'm at and so finally
once I realized that having the killer
instinct wasn't better than the way that
I am then I just started Fanning those
Fanning it Fanning and Fanning it and
really turning it into something and so
then you can start like putting it the
center planting a flag it becomes part
of your identity then it starts to
really magnify and grow but it doesn't
start out it's like this overwhelming
sense it was small and then I just until
it really became something nice all
right we got a bunch questions coming in
from Facebook live nice so we put an ask
and they responded yes Angus owns from
Jumaane Jumaane we haven't heard from
Jumaane in a while yeah and suddenly I'm
teleported back to Tacoma touch that's
right
so he's talking about the the cousin the
Cookie Monster guy in jail oh yeah I'm
feeling because that's a great name yeah
that's great
so Noah told himself that he is the type
of guy that doesn't put up with bullying
can that technique apply to anything an
example would be I'm the type of person
to go to sleep at 10 p.m. I'm the kind
of person that is hilarious funny at
parties well that's really interesting
so yes that's identity right so you
build your identity and then you there
is just an eight human drive to match
your identity especially if you
externalize it and tell people like a
met just imagine for a second like when
I did my fast I wanted to laugh because
people were writing me and like oh like
how like are you ever tempted to like
you know not do it or to like give up
and stop and I thought the number of
times that I've said to an international
audience that I'm a certain type of
person the internal pressure that I have
to live up to that is is a tsunami of
pressure now I do that largely because I
want the tsunami of pressure I want to
make sure that I would feel so disgusted
with myself if I secretly ate something
because I'm such a fraud like I'm
sitting you're telling people that I'm
some way and then I don't do it like the
other day chase was like oh are you
fasting this morning intermittent
fasting and I was like yeah I am and
then if I actually no I'm not because I
put about 10 calories worth of heavy
cream into
coffee so no technically I'm not fasting
and he called me he was like yeah I
can't believe you said you were fasting
that's not a fast I was like 100% like
even those ten ever met I've told the
story before but I remember the very
first time I fasted and day two is
usually the worst right I wake up in the
middle of the night day two of my fast
and my head hurt so badly and I didn't
know if advil had calories so I couldn't
break I'm like no one will know no one
will ever know but I'll know and that's
the thing about identity man you know
and identity is about those moments when
you're all by yourself and there's no
one around there's no music playing to
distract you there's just you and what
you think about yourself and it's those
might the chills
it is those moments my friend where you
actually move towards fulfillment and
really being like at peace with who you
are because in that moment when no one
would ever know but you know you'll know
that you act in accordance with how you
want to feel about yourself so yes I put
it out there because I also wanted to
echo back but at the same time it is all
about I said I was going to do it and
now I'm going to do it and now I'm
careful about what promises I make to
myself because I know like that means
I've really got to care about something
because I'm going to hold myself to that
standard and it like sometimes like the
time where I had the crushing headache
and it sucked unimaginably and I just
thought you can't you said you were
going to do the same and now to feel
about myself the way I want to feel
about myself I have to so you'll notice
I don't fast very often because it's
painful so and once I start I'm going to
finish so I was watching I'm going on
Joe Rogan today I'm so excited about
that so I was watching a bunch of Joe
Rogan footage one of them was Dom
D'Agostino a guy that's really into
ketogenic somebody we worked with a
quest and he was how come why did I
bring up Dom dammit
away oh very proud of myself right now
because I remembered so Dom was talking
about doing a seven-day fast I was like
like I've never done more than three and
so I thought could I do a seven-day fast
do I man up do I do the seven-day fast
it's on my mind I'm thinking about it
but I won't promise myself to do it
until I'm really committed to getting to
the other side of that seven-day fast
but he said something super intriguing
in it like see you looking so I need to
wrap up that day two and three are the
worst and so because I only ever do a
three day fast I'm like God the thought
of going beyond three days is like that
sounds very unfun and he was like oh
yeah days too inferior are really hard
but he's like once you're on the other
side of that he said it's actually
really quite easy part of me wants to
see what's on the other side of us so
I'm thinking about it how do you know
how many seven days if you talk to DOM
Vegas ego the answer is yes and there
are massive implications in terms of
cancer and the reason it probably is
healthy so there's a thing called
apoptosis you put which is programmed
cell death
so intentional cell death to a cell that
is weakened or has messed up DNA and it
knows somehow I don't know how but that
it's replication of DNA has become
messed up and so it kills itself now a
cancer cell is a cell that never clicks
over into apoptosis even though it's
damaged so and that's why they become so
problematic because they just replicate
replicate replicate and so he said that
they get in this weakened state and you
put the added stressor of the caloric
deficit and because it he said literally
is in an energy crisis his theory is
that they need glucose to survive so if
you're robbing them of glucose because
there'll be ketones in your bloodstream
because you're metabolizing body fat
because there'll be ketones in your
bloodstream that the your body functions
normally but a cancer cell his
hypothesis is that they can only burn
glucose and if that's true and you rob
your body of glucose through a fast that
you would kill any of those cells that
are in a weakened state which would be
cancer cells and so they now go through
a sort of mandated through energy crisis
apoptosis and they die
so right very fascinating maybe he's
wrong but what if he's right and one of
those things is maybe it's not all
cancers but what if it's like you could
inoculate yourself from 80% of cancers
like would you do it if I knew
guaranteed that a yearly seven-day fast
a monthly seven-day fast would maybe
bulletproof against cancer I knew it I
would do it a hundred percent
and it's only that like doesn't work
that stops you here like God like that's
a lot of suffering from maybe right so
that's where this all falls apart but
yeah so so so interesting so so
interesting but you ask me another
question
and I derailed on because it was even is
it even healthy yeah almost certainly
anyway so yeah next question anyway I
think we're actually out of time are we
yeah so you don't think you know we're
out of time right yes it either is or is
not eleven o'clock guys these are fun
thank you so much for joining us
and thank you for doing a lot of work to
make these episodes pop I now other than
watch the episode I do absolutely zero
preparation for these which is the lazy
person to me is full of gratitude to you
for running these guys remember August
23rd my friends as a thank you as a
display of my gratitude I'm going to be
of service how that keeps coming back
around for 24 hours I will make myself
available to you I will answer any and
all questions that are submitted by 6:00
a.m. on the 24th so during that whole
time as long as they come in by then I
will answer however long it takes and
the only reason I put the cap it's exam
is because I don't want people trolling
me and coming at like 859 and asking
more and more per - [__] with me so as
long as the question is submitted by 6
a.m. on the 24 so I'll be deep deep deep
deep into the 24 hour lives by that
point I will stay as long as required to
answer those questions so it is me
wanting to be of service to you guys as
a thank you I cannot believe how fast
this community's growing and it's all
because I hope it's adding value and
you're sharing it share share share this
feed if it's adding value that'd be
amazing
all right this is a weekly show if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next
my friends be legendary take care and by
the way this is Facebook so when I say
subscribe I mean like just still 11 yes
but if you're watching on YouTube
subscribe
you